# Idle-Ants
Idle-Ants merges growing a colony of ants with an idle game. An idle game is a type of video game that typically requires minimal or no active gameplay from the player. In Idle-Ants, the player has to start gameplay slowly. Gameplay begins with tapping on the ant hill to make ants go get food for your queen. The food feeds the queen, the queen lays eggs, and the eggs make more ants for more food. Eventually the game begins to play itself. Users know their scores by looking at the Home Page which displays a user’s number of ants, amount of food, and number of eggs. 
When commencing the project Friday night, the goal of this project was to piece together a functional idle game. Our team wanted to integrate graphics and logic to create a game that is easy to play and can even play itself.
Tools: Our team’s chosen programming language was Python. We used the Pycharm IDE. This way our team was able to push and pull from GitHub. Our team used Kivy. Kivy appealed to the team because it is a freely distributable framework used for application development. We built classes capable of being implemented in the game logic and graphical user interface. Additionally we used JSON for storage. Each time one of the values of the game changes it is uploaded into one of the JSON files. This way, a user’s score is stored within the game. 
How to run: Users can run Idle Ants using Python 3.11. Idle Ants is available as a .py file and a .exe file. Once a user has the game set up, the graphics should encourage users to begin clicking around the game. 
How we built this: Initially the team discussed the game logic. Over time the logic altered some. Necessary tools to code were installed by each team member. Two team members did front-end work. These team members put together pixel art graphics, implemented buttons, and set up display functionality. Two team members took on back-end work. These team members concocted a system for storage, wrote classes and methods for key functionality, and directly implemented the game logic to code. Once the front end graphics were ready, all team members collaborated on combining resources to form a functional product. 
Credits: The team behind Idle Ants includes members Luke Slizoski, Klayton Pagel, Dylan Norris, and Alexis Bernthal. Luke is a student and he interns at the Buckle Corporation in Kearney, NE. His family owns a farm in Nebraska however the farm neglects to raise ants. Luke is excited because he now can raise ants through Idle Ants video game ant farm. Klayton is a Cybersecurity student who works in IT at the Buckle Corporation. While piecing together this project Klayton was passionate about ensuring each ant was accounted for. Dylan is a student who works part time as an employee for Target. Dylan thoroughly enjoys idle games and will now likely be found playing Idle Ants in class. Alexis is a student who works part time at a retirement home in Kearney, Nebraska. Now that Idle Ants is up and running her next goal is to try and teach at least one of the residents (over 80 years old) how to play the video game. 
Inspiration: Other Idle Games inspired this game. The concept of having a game that can play itself is unique. The game can likewise appeal to a wider network of users since it is relatively simple to use. Ants live in a unique environment that our group was able to draw inspiration from. Since ants live underground it allowed our team to be creative in building a tunnel, an incubator room, a queen room, and a food room. Additionally, ants are insects that are able to adapt. Similar to ants, our team had to adapt to some challenges. 
Challenges: The Kivy Clock. Integrating the Kivy clock with the game logic was difficult. The Kivy Clock interfered with the game’s animations and was difficult to get to run continuously. Converting our project to an AWS file (to be displayed on a Samsung phone) was also a challenge. The process to convert to an AWS file failed towards the end of the execution phase.
Functionality: Users begin on the home menu. The home menu displays an ant hill. A key purpose of Idle Ants is for users to tap and swipe to earn more aunts, hatch more eggs, and collect more food. A user can automatically begin earning the currency of more ants through repetitively clicking the ant hill. Users can likewise navigate to the tunnels. From the tunnels users have the option to enter three rooms. The first room is the Queen Aunt Room. Within the Queen Aunt Room users can click to lay eggs and/or multiply eggs. The second room is the Incubation Room. In the Incubation Room users can interact with the program through hatching eggs. Users can also multiply the amount of eggs hatched within the incubator. Finally, the third room is the Food Room. In the food room a mountain of food gathered by aunts is displayed. Users can interact with this room by multiplying the amount of food gathered and/or upgrading the capacity of food that can be stored. While a user plays Idle Ants they are always able to go back to a previous room or navigate to a new room. This way the game has versatility and showcases the creativity of a game inspired by the dynamic insect of aunts. 
Accomplishments: Successfully building a functional game. Putting together a game with multiple parts and components. Learning how to use and implement Kivy.


